So in order for us to be able to log in users or create account, we need to go back to our console
for our base or just go to where you query the app in our console and to the left here.
We have different services, so we want to go to authentication, so click there.
And of course, you will have to get started to start to to start authenticating your users.
There are different ways or different forms of authenticating users so we can use Google, Facebook
gameplay, Apple, Microsoft, Twitter and so forth, or phone or anonymous.
We're just going to use the email and password.
So click there and you will have to enable it.
OK.
So in this case, I want to enable it to allow users to sign up using their email address and password.
OK, now you could also enable the the email link.
We're not going to do that.
So it's OK as we have it here, right?
Notice this is going to be inside of was signing method.
OK.
Well, let's say safe.
And you can see now you should see the email and password enabled.
If you go to our users right, you should see that there is no users for this project yet.
So as we authenticate or create new users here, they will be added here.
So you could also add one user here, let's go ahead and add one ourselves so we can see if we can log
in.
So I'm going to see me at Mi.com and add a password here, tester, that's OK, I'm going to add this
user.
And you can see the user was added.
OK, very good.
So now how do we then go through the process of let's start with the logging in the user?
Now we could go here and write the code for logging in, which is fine.
But again, we are smart enough now to understand that it's always a good idea to take out these functionalities
to put in a separate file that can be accessed from anywhere.
OK, so let's put all of that into a view model.
That way, we can just invoke the view model and have access to that.
Now this is going to be more apparent now.
The reason why I have for each screen, I have a dedicated folder or a dedicated package because now
in our login screen, how far they would go, I can now right click and add a new.
Cuddling class, this case, I'm going to call this log in screen view model such.
Look how neat this is.
Now it's all inside of log in package.
Along with the reader, log in screen, very handy.
All right, let's get rid of some of these that we are not really interested in seeing at this point.
So we have a clean works play workspace there.
OK, so we're going to leave both of these.
All right.
So in this case here, I'm not going to use the dependency injection because it's a very simple fuel
model, but I still need to invoke the view model.
Why such?
OK.
To say that extends if you model so we can start using it.
I'm going to create a few variables here.
Now I want to always have some sort of a state, so I know if things are working to our advantage,
meaning if we are actually able to load stuff and we can look at that state, a loading state, for
instance, there are different ways to create a loading state or state of our data as it's connecting
or receiving data from somewhere.
I'm going to do it this way.
So this is a different way.
It would say foul.
Create a loading state here, and I'm going to use this mutable state flow instead of just mutable state
to ball state flow.
This mutable state flow and mutable state, they are pretty much the same, except with flow.
It's a little bit different because it deals with other things that mutable state may not deal with.
So we're just going to go with Mirabal state flow here just because we want to.
All right.
Now, in this case, I need to pass something here to start off.
So I'm going to pass this loading state and say, not idle.
No, we haven't created this loading state class.
It looks like some sort of static class of some sort.
Yes, you're right.
That's what it is.
So bottom here me.
Go ahead and create a class.
It's going to be an enum like this.
Let's extract to a different folder or file.
Let's just track two different file.
Click there and I can keep instead of a log in.
That's fine.
And there we go.
We have our loading state.
So it's going to be an enum here.
We're going to put a few states that we may want.
In fact, let's change this.
Just a data class for now submits a data class loading state.
And I say this is going to be enum here.
So, OK, we're going to fix all of that.
So let's pass a few values here.
The constructor, the primary constructor that we start, is going to be status, which we haven't seen
yet.
So, OK, we're going to get there.
And Val, I'm going to say message.
It's going to be a strange type and maybe that knowable, if I can, just going to make it known right
away.
All right now inside here, I'm going to create an enum class that will be status.
So this will control.
Of course, we'll have a list of all this status.
So I can just put a bunch of different status here.
I can say, for instance, running success failed.
Loading We can't get rid of running this loading and running.
It's the same thing, pretty much.
And idle.
OK, so we can pass through different states that we want to keep track of.
I'm going to create a companion object so we can actually use it directly.
So it's a companion object and such.
And then I'm going to say Val idle, this case is going to be equal to loading stayed in there past
the status of idle like this can do the same thing with others can add as many as it want.
I can add all of them in this case and see success.
It's going to be equal to success and pass out.
Loading.
Status loading and so forth, so I could continue on and on to get, in fact, it was still here, let's
just do all of them and say failed.
It's going to be failed.
So all we're doing here, we're creating this loading state class, which has this companion object
here, which means just a static object that we can access directly.
And when we access the idol value, we are going to load the state to say the state is idle.
If success would do the same and so forth.
So this is just a good way for us to wrap our state, our data should say into a state so that way we
can check to see where we are in the process.
All right.
Very good.
So now you see that this looks good.
So I'm saying he's loading.
State at first is going to be immutable state flow and then it's going to be idle in the beginning.
Nothing.
Meaning nothing is happening is just idle.
That's the state now.
Next, I'm going to create a private variable variable here.
Call this off.
Now this is going to be a special one because is going to be a firebase like such as object right from
Google.
And I said it to Firebase.
Get this Firebase Kotlin extension and I'm going to get it off like that.
What I'm doing here is, are we invoking the Firebase author we have access to to the authentication
library?
Next, here I'm going to create another private variable.
So I'm going to use another kind of internal private variable here called loading and I'm going to use
a different type was immutable live data.
So I know I'm using different types here.
In fact, as it is right now, I won't need this.
I'm going just get rid of that.
I'm actually going to use internally the loading.
Really, I'm not going to use outside of this so we can enable this if we want later to do something
else where we can check the state right.
But for now, I'm just going to not use that.
OK, I might create a new one that I'm going to use internally.
But nevertheless, this was good to learn how to at least hook this up, right?
So we have mutable list live data.
Again, another type here that allows us to hold this data in the reactive data that can be passed along
because it has state and so can be recomposed in our composable functions.
And so the first file is going to be false for immutable life data.
OK, so in this case, I'm going to create then the interface variable that can be used somewhere else
if we need to.
I'm going to say loading.
It's going to be live data.
It's actually going to pass the type.
It's going to be just a Boolean.
Now we could have used mutable state.
That's fine.
I'm using different types, so hopefully we can see that we can interchange.
Daniel can use them.
But usually you want to just pick one and go for it.
All right.
So we have live data here, and I'm going to set that to our loading or loading data.
I'm going to set that into our loading there.
So what I'm doing here is that this is going to be used internally and this is a something variable
that can be used outside of this class.
Right now.
Inside here, I'm going to create a function called create user with email and password.
Yes, I know a very long function name.
And so what are we going to do here?
Yes, we are going to be loading or creating the user with email and password.
And also, we're going to create another one, another function when I create or log in user.
I would call it, let's see.
Make sure let's call this sign in with email and password.
As such.
OK, so we have two of them.
Let's start with this one here.
I'm going to actually put that on top there, right?
So to sign in, sign a user with email and password, we need to pass a few parameters.
First of all, it's going to be email.
It's going to be a string.
And yes, you guessed it the password, which is also going to be a string type asset.
Very good.
So what is there we're going to be doing here?
Well, luckily we do have our US, which essentially allows us to get to our authentication library
and get all these functionalities to log the user into all sort of things.
So in this case, we're going to use that.
So I'm going to put inside of a try and catch because things could go wrong and catch such and pass
here.
He, for exception, passing an exception as such.
And if something happens, Lagarde is going to pass the message.
So he likes that message.
Done.
And this is going to be.
AFB.
OK.
So how do we sign in with email and password?
Like I said, we can use, of course, our auth object there because they us look at that, it's a Firebase
auth object, which is very helpful.
I can go ahead and just say that, look how easy this is.
I can go ahead and say, sign in with.
With look at this, all of these different methods we can call sign in with email and password, that
is exactly what I want and I'm going to pass the email.
She's going to be to email and pass the password, I said.
And I can go ahead and say, add on complete listener, which in this case, it's going to give me some
information that I may need, which is going to be a task like that.
This object?
Oops.
Add on cancel has to be add on complete listener.
OK, there we go.
So now we have this task.
If you have over, it's going to be an information that I may want to use.
For instance, I can say that if task actually, if you go task like this, you can see it's a type.
It's a task type that contains auth result object, which means it's going to give the information about
whether this user was indeed a locked-in or not.
So I can see if is successful, I have that variable there.
That's true.
Then we can do something to do here to do here.
I'm going to say, take them home.
So I'm going to take the users to the home screen.
Else?
Well, we're out of luck.
Else, I'm just going to log them and say something that they'll pass in the task.
That result.
And to string AFB like this.
Now all of this is actually not a good idea to put all of that just in a function like this, right?
Remember, because we're going to be dealing with going somewhere.
Meaning we have to go to our authentication, our father basically reconnecting somewhere else in this
case.
We need to pass along all of this that we've written has to be passed inside of a few model scope.
Right.
Because we need to pass that through a routine right away.
We are able to run this process away from the main threat here.
I'm going to just put say equal to view model, scope dot launch like that.
And so everything is now going to be inside of these scopes.
If you click here, let's see.
Make sure that, yeah, all is enclosed there.
So this will know exactly that it needs to run in a different scope and a different core routine so
that we don't run into issues.